---
layout: post
title:  
author: Adam Berg
---
<!--more-->

I've had a few days now to play around with the app on a daily basis. Unsurprisingly, it leaves a lot to be desired. However, I believe it has proven certain things I was hoping it would. I'm a huge fan of opening it and knowing that it's taking me to exactly where I need to be.  There is (almost) no barrier to me collecting my thought.  Unfortunately, the way the text input was designed is incredibly clunky on a phone.  While there are several other things that could be improved, I believe this one is the next most important one: "removing any barrier to writing a new thought."

I started with a large content-editable body, because I thought I would go back and make changes to the order of things. I quickly realized that doing so would be quite difficult on the phone, and even if I could do it, it wasn't the primary thing I was trying to achieve. Instead of managing new lines and the structure of the text, I want to fire off separate thoughts one at a time.

The interface for a messaging app came to mind as a simple possible solution. A while ago I experimented with using Telegram to collect thoughts like this, and it worked surprisingly well. Finding the correct chat for my thoughts slowly grew on my nerves, as well as the fear of flinging off a private thought accidentally to an actual person.

I've started collecting enhancements on Github and this is the one I choose to address first. The actual work isn't too difficult, but creating this new behaviour likely requires changing the schema of the database design. Actually, maybe it doesn't...I was going to say that each line of these "notes" would need to be split out into their own "note" document, but that doesn't need to be the case.

What I can instead do is treat this entire note as if it was typed up all at once. It's different than how I would expect most future notes to work, but doesn't actually fundamentally break anything. This allows me to avoid writing a migration or losing my initial data.

Another major problem I have with the current app is that it's using UTC to fetch the current date on the server instead of my actual timezone. As I move towards individual thoughts, I plan to store the date timestamp in it's entirety on the note document. I'm picturing an infinite scroll allowing access to historical notes, which means that for now I can just load in all of the notes and deal with pagination later.

Another problem was that the save button was incredibly inconvenient.  It required closing the keyboard and was difficult to click at the very bottom of the screen. When it finally was clicked there was no indication that it actually saved.

Re-Opening the app would not refresh the data.  Which meant it was possible to overwrite data that came from another computer.

As a user, I can submit thoughts one at a time.

Small text box at the bottom of the page that is auto focused when opening. There is a small button to the right for submitting the thought.