---
layout: post
title:  
author: Adam Berg
tag: brainstorm
---



<!--more-->

My last [post](/personal/breadth-first-search-a-walk-in-the-park-chapter-one) was a bit of a whirlwind. I recognize that the writing is all over the place and there is really no concrete point made. I was mulling over how to identify that a post was going to be less structured. Reflecting on how I was feeling at the time, I thought to myself that it felt like there was a storm that rolled through my brain. From now on, I will tag posts as **brainstorm** where I expect a downpour of thoughts that flood a post. Each gets me slightly closer to something that resembles a structured post.

In some ways this starts right where I left the last post. Interestingly, I didn't really mean to. I was sitting eating dinner trying to decide what to do with a free evening when a few ideas came to mind.

Last week I decided to participate in a [Beginners Circle Gam Jam](https://itch.io/jam/beginners-circle-jam-3). So I thought maybe I should make some more progress there. A couple of nights ago I put the "finishing" touches on [Island 42](https://catharticgames.itch.io/island-42). I ultimately decided that I gained what I wanted to from that experience. I had messed around with making 3D games before, but this was really the first time that I felt like I actually picked up and used certain concepts. I created a 3D island in Blender, created a water shader, downloaded a free 3D model of a palm tree and painted it inside Blender, and put it all together to make an incredibly boring experience. 

Next I debated writing a post here. I have about 100 ideas for proper blog posts locked up somewhere in my brain. But the act of doing the proper research and writing just doesn't suit my mood. One of my recurring app ideas comes to mind, and I decide that I'll use this writing as motivation to figure out what I'm actually trying to build.

I hesitate to put a name on what I'm trying to build, because truthfully I don't really know. My intention is to start with the smallest thing possible that I can use daily: a digital journal. I recognize that there are easily thousands of things that already exist for this, but something just doesn't sit right for me with each of them. I always took notes while I was in school and also tended to take notes at my jobs. This was always on physical paper, and most has either already been thrown away or is lost somewhere. I love handwritten notes, but I do not love having notebooks accumulate and while they are great for abstract drawings and things, it takes far too long to put thoughts on to the page vs. typing. 

My first digital note taking started with Google Keep. I love how quick and simple keep is, but the simplicity is where it loses me. Tags offer some form of categorization, but they are extremely rigid, and I find no joy in neatly organizing things, because it doesn't feel like there is a neat way to do it. The drawing capabilities on iPad leave much to be desired. Scrolling is incredibly painful with two fingers as it constantly zooms in and out as you attempt to scroll. Many times I have lost drawings for no reason, or for no apparent reason I get sent back to the top of the drawing. While most of my note taking I intend to type, there are some ideas that can be drawn out and saves 1000 words.

Next came Apple Notes. I figured that Apple is supposedly known for intuitive software and great products, so that must be a great app. It certainly works better with the Apple Pencil. Scrolling works extremely well and I didn't have the same issue with it scrolling back to the top. However, again organization of notes was a real chore. I found myself having one continuous document for the day so that I could avoid changing pages as much as possible. Changing pages is also a bit of a nightmare. I have frequently had the syncing of notes lock up the entire app. I'm unable to switch back to a note I literally just wrote because it's decided it needs to do a full sync of everything. The final gripe is my usual one with Apple: interoperability. My desktop is not a Mac and I don't even really intend to stick with Apple for my phone or laptop in the future. Technically speaking you can access Notes in iCloud in the browser, but that is a sorry excuse of an application. 

Microsoft One Note was my next attempt. I was impressed by what seemed possible in One Note. They appear to be working hard to get their web app doing everything the original Microsoft exclusive app used to do. Their concept of notebooks was neat and the ability to put pretty much anything you wanted into a note seemed great. Of the three so far, I think I liked this one best, but there was still something about it that didn't sit well with me. I dreaded opening it, because it felt so labor intensive to find what I was looking for that I eventually gave up.

Notion was my next victim. When I first created an account and started using it, my mind was blown. A lot of the frustrations I was facing appeared to have an answer. Probably most importantly, creating and organizing notes kind of became fun. Picking an emoji that perfectly fit the new section you created. Adding a header to a page so you can see it every time you open it. I thought this was it.  Started packing up my life and moving it in to Notion. Unfortunately, again something felt off. I had lots of things I wanted to do in Notion. Tracking workouts and keeping a daily journal were just a couple of those. I don't lug a computer around at all times (though the thought has crossed my mind), so I was mostly doing these things on my phone. I'd get to the gym and open the app. Easily 12 seconds just to get it open. Now I needed to create a new workout template for the day. After finding the little dropdown I find the template I want and click it. I now wait another 10-15 seconds as the magic internet elves do all the work. Now I have to find the thing that was just created, click in, and from there this continues ad nauseam. I admit that I'm stretching what Notion is built for, but even outside of that it feels much better suited for a business environment than a personal one.

The next option appeared to be that I needed to find the perfect app for every specific thing I was trying to do. However, this would lead me back to one of the initial problems that none of that data interacts with each other. I don't have the exact answer to these problems, but I would like to try to find one. In my next post, I'll break down the problem to a minumum viable product.